# Health and Safety

Source domains: *Addiction*, *Blood Stream*, *Body of Water* (partial),
*Contamination*, *Disease*, *Fire* (partial), *Food*, *Hazardous Geographic
Feature*, *Medicine*, *Monster*, *Natural Physical Force*, *Obesity*,
*Parasite*, *Physical Harm*, *Protection*.


## Conceptual Schema

People want to stay safe and healthy. Some things in the world are
*threat*s to the health and safety of the *threatened*. Other things
are *protection* and against these threats or are *beneficial*.


## Slots

- *Threat*, e.g., monsters, tsunamis, diseases, parasites, 'overdose of
  X', 'evil X'.
- *Threatened*, e.g., 'sick X', 'X overdoses', 'X is threatened',
  'X is infested', 'X is contaminated'.
- *Protection* or mitigation of threats, e.g., medicine, protection,
  shelter, 'X alleviates'.
- *Beneficial* or necessary things, e.g., 'X is the beating heart of',
  doctors, 'appetite for X' (food)


## Examples

1.
> This is how irrationally fearful are of guns some people are. Seems any
> *exposure* to *firearms* is a horrific tragedy. Even teaching gun safety
> is a travesty.
- Threat: firearms
- Threatened: some people

Here *Guns*, instantiated as 'firearms' (are believed to) pose a threat to
'some people', as a disease does.


2.
> And then, they imprison themselves into a static view of the world: one
> where there are no choices, only obedience to one set of rules or another;
> one where consequences do not matter, only dogmatic rules; one where there
> is no dynamic creation or destruction of values, only static distribution
> of a fixed pie of wealth.
- Beneficial: wealth

Note that the schema annotation itself may not be sufficient to explain
and identify the metaphor, but in the context of the identified metaphor,
it should be explanatory. Here we see that wealth is viewed as beneficial,
which explains why it is regarded as *Food* ('pie').


3.
> The perfect storm of homelessness and poor heath in South Los Angeles
> requires a powerful human right to health approach that can engineer the
> broad-based support and political will necessary to implement long
> overdue, desperately need solutions.
- Threat: homelessness and poor health
- Threatened: South Los Angeles


4.
> Back in the 1760's there was a far greater amount of threat that a *gun*
> could potentially *alleviate* than there is for a person at a local
> starbucks.
- Protection: gun


## Notes

In health and safety scenarios, threats motivate metaphorical mappings
far more than beneficial things. Mapping target domains to scenarios
involving threats is one of the most common metaphorical mappings found in
our program data.

Note that specific sources bring with them their own meaningful
characteristics, e.g., natural physical forces are abrupt, large scale,
and very difficult to defend yourself from. A deeper analysis of examples
would be in terms of increasing, maintaining, or decreasing structure. We
would also like to distinguish between threats or protections that are
potential vs active. However, the simplistic annotation above is
sufficient for our cross-cultura comparison.
