# Journey

Source domains: *Abyss*, *Accident*, *Backward Movement*, *Barrier*,
*Body of Water* (partial), *Confinement*, *Forward Movement*, *Journey*,
*Maze*, *Movement*, *Pathway*, *Physical Burden*, *Physical Location* 
(possibly), *Portal*, *Vehicle*.


## Conceptual Schema

An *agent* on a journey wants to reach their *goal*. Some things --
*vehicle*s -- facilitate movement towards a destination. Other things --
*barrier*s -- hinder movement towards a destination. Any movement forward
or back causes *change* to increase or decrease (*change type*).


## Slots

- *Agent*: the person on a journey, e.g., 'X flies', 'X travels',
  'X marches', 'journey of X', 'progression of X'
- *Goal*: the destination of the journey, e.g., destination,
  escape, summit, 'advance toward X', 'reach X', 'path to X', 'road to X',
  'steps toward X', 'door to X'
- *Vehicle*: the facilitator of the journey, e.g., 'straight pathway of X',
  'engine of X', 'X provides access to'
- *Barrier*: a thing that impedes the journey, e.g., pit, door, 'maze of X',
  road block, 'obstructive X', 'abyss of X', obstacle, 'X restrains', 'X
  ensnares', labyrinthine
- *Change*, e.g., 'X advances', 'X progresses', 'retreat of X', 'go
  backwards', 'reversed course'
- *Change Type*:
  - INCREASE, e.g., advances, increases, progresses
  - DECREASE, e.g., retreats, decreases, diminishes


## Examples

1.
> One of the obstacles to achieving indigenous participation in national
> politics is the election system. Indigenous peoples typically cannot
> participate in elections for a variety of reasons...
- Agent: Indigenous peoples
- Goal: achieving indigenous participation in national politics
- Barrier: the election system

The annotation tells us the story and structure of the metaphor: The
election system is a barrier to the journey of indigenous peoples toward
the goal of achieving indigenous participation in national politics.


2.
> For the sake of gun rights, we need to accept the historical account
> of the second amendment for what it actually is, and move forward in
> advancing gun rights with a full understanding of the historical
> truth. Only then will gun rights be on a solid foundation.
- Agent: we
- Goal: gun rights be on a solid foundation
- Vehicle: accept the historical account of the second amendment for
  what it actually is
- Change: gun rights
- Change Type: INCREASE

Here we see that a desired outcome is to have gun rights be on a solid
foundation. We are progressing there via accepting the historical
account of the second amendment for what it is, and in reaching this
goal, gun rights are increasing.
