# Conflict

Source domains: *Competition*, *Forward Movement* (partial: 'gaining ground'),
*Game*, *Struggle*, *War*.


## Conceptual Schema

There are two opposing *side*s in a conflict, one of which may be the
*enemy* of the speaker. The conflict has structure and plays out according
to the rules of engagement. A component of the conflict may be an *aid*,
which helps progress towards the goal of winning. At the end, one side is
a *winner* and the other side is a *loser*. If your side wins, it is
success; if it loses, it is failure. The conflict may have different
stakes, e.g., losing a war is more serious than losing a football game.


## Slots

- *Conflict*, e.g., 'game of X', 'battle of X', 'X competition', 'X debate',
  'play in X', 'fight in X', 'the X war', 'the X battle', 'the war of X',
  'inning of X', 'struggle of X'
- *Side*, e.g., 'compete with X', 'X played', 'X attacks', 'challenge X',
  'winning against X', 'rival to X', 'X face an uphill battle', 'X
  forces', 'X combats Y', 'X team', 'X scored', 'X is batting',
  'X gambles on'
- *Enemy* or competitor of the speaker, e.g., 'X are terrorists', 'X are
  evildoers', 'opposing X', 'fighting X', 'X is our enemy'
- *Winner*, e.g., 'X wins', 'X victory', 'victorious X', 'X conquered',
  'victory of X over...'
- *Loser*, e.g., 'X loses', 'defeated X', 'surrender of X', 'defeat of X',
  'X capitulates'
- *Aid*, a component of the conflict that helps toward winning, e.g., a
  weapon, home run, gaining ground, 'sword of X', 'X card', 'brandish X',
  'wield X', 'X is a useful weapon'


## Examples

1.
> Whether George W. Bush or Al Gore ends up *winning* the *presidency*,
> the Constitution charts a course for him to carve out with one bold
> strike of bipartisanship the best conceivable way of pulling the country
> together.
- Conflict: presidency
- Side: George W. Bush
- Side: Al Gore

2.
> The company has *fought* *taxation* at the state level, and a
> measure proposed at ALEC would have allowed companies to operate untaxed
> in states even if they advertise, hold trade shows or work through
> subsidiaries.
- Side: The company
- Enemy: taxation

3.
> We agree that *gun control* will *win* because Americans aren't willing to
> kill over it.
- Side: Americans
- Winner: gun control


## Notes

In conflict scenarios, positive or negative stances or affect are rarely
explicit. It is implied that the "other side" is viewed negatively.
Tactics that help your side win are viewed positively. But more frequently
than in other categories, metaphors seem to be invoked to characterize
some aspect of a target domain as a conflict.
