# Power and Control

Source domains: *A God*, *Enslavement*, *Leader*, *Magic*, *Servant*.


## Conceptual Schemas

A being may have power and control over another being. Levels of control
and the autonomy of the subservient person vary. There is resentment and
anger when autonomy levels are perceived as too low.

There are two distinct -- but related -- scenarios in Power & Control.
(Metaphors about magic or magicians are ambiguous between the scenarios
and are not currently handled.)


## Power and Control: God

Source domains: *A God*.

A *god* is a sacred being that a *worshipper* considers to rightly have
power over humans due to its innate superiority, including its holiness,
wisdom, or might. The *legitimacy* of a non-divine being that has been
elevated and worshipped as a god is false; otherwise, it is true.

### Slots

- *God*, e.g., 'X cult', 'idolize X', 'sacred X', 'worship of X', 'temple
  of X', 'divine X', 'X idol', 'holy X'
- *Worshipper*, e.g., 'X idolizes', 'X praises', 'X worships'
- *Legit*imacy:
  - TRUE, e.g., divine, sacred
  - FALSE, e.g., cult, false god, idol

### Examples

1.
> Thus, independence of the Judiciary is enshrined in the Constitution for
> the first time, which is rightly considered a historic landmark.
- God: independence of the Judiciary
- Legitimacy: TRUE

2.
> Capitalism promotes not only self-reliance but also reputation, while
> progressivism promotes the idolatry of bureaucrats and places elites
> beyond questioning.
- God: bureaucrats
- Legitimacy: FALSE


## Power and Control: Human

Source domains: *Enslavement*, *Leader*, *Servant*.

Sometimes there is a clearly marked hierarchy among people, where a
*servant* serves the will of a *leader*. The *degree* of oppression or
submission may be low, in which case the servant has more autonomy, or
high, in which case the servant is more thoroughly controlled, like a
slave. Higher degrees of oppression are generally seen more negatively.

### Slots

- *Leader*: who or what has power, e.g., 'X ordered', 'assisted X',
  'served X', 'X enslaves', 'X oppression', 'X reigns', 'X is king'
- *Servant*: who or what is assisting or being controlled, e.g.,
  'X assisted', 'X served', 'X was a slave', 'slavery of X', 'enslaves X',
  'X obeys', 'servile X', 'X works for'
- *Degree*:
  - HIGH: like a slave, e.g., slave, slavedriver, dominance
  - LOW: like a servant, e.g., served, assisted, helped

### Examples

1.
> ...prevent the majority from taking full control of an unrestrained
> government.
- Leader: the majority
- Servant: government
- Degree: HIGH

Here we see the majority (of something) having power over the government
fully (i.e., to a high degree).

2.
> A tax lien sale can help an owner avoid foreclosure, additional fees
> paid to the lender for costs associated with the foreclosure action, and
> terminal condition of their credit report for years to come.
- Leader: an owner
- Servant: a tax lien sale
- Degree: LOW

3.
> The unelected civil bureaucracy oppresses the mom and pop businesses
> which are the backbone of this country.
- Leader: bureaucracy
- Servant: mom and pop businesses
- Degree: HIGH
