# Engineering and Business

Source domains: *Body of Water* (partial), *Building*, *Business*,
*Energy*, *Fabric*, *Factory*, *Forceful Extraction*, *Gap*, *Machine*,
*Pliability*, *Resource*, *Strength*, *Tool*, *Vehicle* (partial),
*Weakness*, *Shape*.


## Conceptual Schemas

Things that are useful to humans are built and maintained. It is desirable
that these built things be strong and functional. This requires resources
and energy, which may be forcefully extracted. A gap undermines structural
integrity and should be filled.

There are three distinct -- but related -- scenarios in this schema:


## Engineering and Business: Business

Source domains: *Business*.

Things that are useful to humans are built by companies, which also sell
and deliver these products. The *business* is the company or entity
responsible for providing a *product* (including physical goods or
services) to its customers.

### Slots

- *Business*, e.g., 'X sells', 'X produces', 'X manufactures', 'X
  marketed'
- *Product*, e.g., 'sells X', 'produces X', 'manufactures X', 'marketed
  X', 'buys X'

### Examples

1.
> Perry argues that gun control sells the false premise that it is solving
> a problem, when all it does is make it more difficult for law-abiding
> citizens to defend themselves.
- Business: gun control
- Product: the false premise that it is solving a problem

2.
> Gun control is selling perceived safety by scare tactics and making
> people afraid.
- Business: gun control
- Product: perceived safety

3.
> The church needs to clean up it's own closet AND backyard and fully
> remain OUT of the gun control business!!!
- Business: gun control


## Engineering and Business: Engineering

Source domains: *Building*, *Fabric*, *Machine*, *Tool*, *Vehicle*.

*Engineer*s build and maintain complex things that are useful to humans,
which they want to be strong, last a long time, and function well.
People work together to create a *built* thing, which can include a
critical structural *component* and benefit from a *facilitator* of
functionality, which allows the built thing to perform its duty. Metaphors
sometimes highlight the built thing's *destruction potential*: It may be
in danger of being destroyed or it may be unwanted and people desire its
destruction.

### Slots

- *Built* thing, e.g., a building ('reinforce X', 'house of X', 'foundation
  of X', 'pillar of X', 'building blocks of X') or other construction
  ('strengthen X', 'reinforce X', 'construction of X', 'X mechanism', 'the
  X engine', 'machinery of X', 'cogs of X', 'fabric of X')
- *Component*, e.g., X's engines, foundations, pillars, 'foundational X',
  'X underpins'
- *Facilitator*, e.g., 'X greases the wheels', lubricant, 'X tightens Y'
- *Destruction Potential*:
  - DANGER, e.g., 'X may burn down, 'X may collapse', 'dismantling of X'
  - DESIRE, e.g., 'X must be toppled', 'X should be razed', 'tear down X'
- *Engineer* or other creator, e.g, 'X built Y'.

### Examples

1.
> 'Sometimes democracy builds contentious elections', he said.
- Built: elections
- Engineer: democracy

Here the building (an increase in structure) is not explicitly captured
by the schema, but by identifying that elections are what is built and
democracy is the builder, we capture the roles played by the important
entities.

2.
> Capitalism is greasing the wheels...
- Facilitator: Capitalism

3.
> Democracy is the foundation of freedom.
- Built: freedom
- Component: Democracy

4.
> Gun control was a central pillar in President Obama’s State of the Union
> address.
- Built: President Obama's State of the Union address
- Component: Gun control

5.
> But in the meantime our "house of gun rights" is on fire and at some
> point will burn down.
- Built: gun rights
- Destruction Potential: DANGER

### Notes

We don't handle 'facade' exs.


## Engineering and Business: Resource

Source categories: *Energy*, *Forceful Extraction*, *Resource*.

Building and maintaining things requires resources and energy, which may be
forcefully extracted. There is a quantitity of a *resource*, which is
desirable and useful in some way. The amount of the available resource
can undergo a *change type*: It may increase so there is more of it
available or decrease so there is less of it available. The resource may
improve so that it is of higher quality or more useful, or it may
degrade so it is of lower quality or less useful. When a resource is
increasing, an extractor may be identified, who is increasing the
available supply.

### Slots

- *Resource*, e.g., 'extracted X', 'drilled for X', 'acquired X', 'X
  powers', 'X fuels'
- *Change Type*:
  - INCREASE, e.g., acquired, developed, extracted
  - DECREASE, e.g., evaporated, depleted
  - IMPROVE, e.g., refined, distilled
  - DEGRADE, e.g., diluted
- *Extractor*, e.g., 'X extracted', 'X drilled for', 'X acquired'

### Examples

1.
> ...and you are correct about the transfer of wealth upward...
- Resource: wealth
- Change Type: INCREASE

A 'transfer' is also a DECREASE for someone else, but this seems like a
reasonable interpretation. What we'd especially like is to know who is
'upward' that is the *Extractor*.
