# Plants

Source domains: *Crop*, *Plant*.


## Conceptual Schema

All plants have the same life cycle: they begin as seeds; require
sufficient light, water, and nutrients to thrive; and eventually die.
All plants have roots, which serve as a foundation and support system.
Some plants have flowers, which are a sign of thriving and coming to
maturity, and fruits, which are a sign of maturity. Flowers and fruits
are seen as beneifical to humans.

It is desirable that *beneficial plant*s, seen as good, grow strong and
have a full life cycle. This may involve human intervention and care, in
which case the plant is considered a crop and the human a
*farmer/gardener*. *Undesirable plant*s should be removed.


## Slots

- *Beneficial plant*, e.g., 'roots of X', 'branches of X', 'blossoms of
   X', 'X crop', 'reap X', 'cultivation of X', 'reap X'.
- *Undesirable plant*, e.g., 'weeds of X', 'cut off the branches of X',
  'hacking at the root of X'
- *Farmer/gardener*, e.g., 'X harvests', 'X propagates'


## Examples

1.
> Some things to pay attention to when trying to harvest your student loan
> interest tax deduction:
- Beneficial plant: student loan interest tax deduction
- Farmer/gardener: you


2.
> Administrators cultivate these people because they become a layer of
> protection and often willing servants.
- Beneficial plant: these people
- Farmer/gardener: Administrators


3.
> If these democratic sprouts are carefully cultivated, they will grow
> into a thriving orchard of democracy that will bear wonderful fruits not
> just for Iraq but for all the peoples of the conflicted Middle East.
- Beneficial plant: democracy


## Notes

We can't properly handle:

1.
> It can redeem the whole human scene through the understanding that
> addresses the roots of poverty, persecution, or other issues of deep
> concern.
- XXX

This previously (for a general Nature frame) was:
- Agent:
- Relation:
- Body: poverty
- Aspect: roots
- AspectRelation: SUPPORT


2.
> Instead, both sides point to *limp* *legislation* to justify their
> policy positions and claim political superiority.


3.
> This is the case for several reasons, including the fact that jobs
> within the *field* of *government* often offer competitive pay.


4.
> Nothing *prunes* *red tape* more quickly than an angry President.
Here the red tape is a harmful plant, but maybe only when it's too large.


5.
> And as *democracy* *grows* in Taiwan...


6.
> The blood, sweat and tears of citizens of conscience working to make
> government better are the rain and *fertilizer* of *democracy*.

We need the concept of an aid to proper plant growth. At which point
plants start to look more like H&S.
