# High and Low

Source domains: *Downward Movement*, *High Location*, *Low Location*,
*Upward Movement*.


## Conceptual Schema

High *location*s and upward *movement* mean more of something while low
locations and downward movement mean less of something. We want more of
good things and less of bad things.


## Slots

- *Level* in a static situation:
  - HIGH, e.g., peak, pinnacle, high levels, high amounts, up to
    eyeballs
  - LOW, e.g., low level
- *Scale*.
- *Movement*:
  - UPWARD, e.g., 'rockets up', 'increases in', 'increased',
    'escalation', 'spike', 'rise', 'raise'.
  - DOWNWARD, e.g., 'fall', 'spiral', 'plummet', 'decline'.
- *Agent* that is at or moving to a vertical location/level.
- *Destination* of the movement.


## Examples

1.
> It envisions a Supreme Court standing (or rather enthroned) at the
> apex of government, empowered to decide all constitutional questions,
> always and everywhere 'primary' in its role.
- Nature of Location: HIGH
- Agent: Supreme Court
- Scale: government

The frame annotation tells us the story of the metaphor: The government
is a scale (or an object with vertical extent) and the Supreme Court is
high on it. As things usually dominate those below them, the metaphor
implies that the Supreme Court can control the government. (Here we've
ignored the exact position suggested by 'apex'.)


2.
> Fiscal cliff: America goes to the brink, but millions already fell
> into poverty (Original post)
- Movement: DOWNWARD
- Agent: millions
- Destination: poverty

Again the frame annotation then tells us the story of the metaphor: The
destination (poverty) can be seen as a hole or valley as things
(millions) can go down it (fell into). Holes/valleys have borders that
can be hard to climb. Therefore the metaphor implies that it can be hard
to get out of the destination (poverty).
