# Nature

Source domains: *Body of Water* (partial), *Fire*, *Weather*.


## Conceptual Schemas

People draw on their observations and understandings of the natural world
as source domains for metaphorical mappings. Some things in nature are
beneficial to humans and support their goals. Other things in nature are not
beneficial to humans and do not support their goals.

There is no overall schema for this category but a number of smaller
schemas:


## Nature: Body of Water

Source domains: *Body of Water*.

Water that is flowing appropriately is beneficial. Bodies of water are also
just used as examples of small or large things. Large bodies of water
may be difficult to deal with due to their size. (Note: Threatening water
is in Health and Safety. Water as a resource is in Engineering and Business:
Resource.)

### Slots

- *Body of Water*, e.g., 'ocean of X', 'river of X', 'sea of X', 'pool of X'
- *Size*:
  - LARGE, e.g., ocean, sea, boundless
  - SMALL, e.g., pond, pool
- *Flowing* beneficially.
- *Rain*, e.g., 'rain of X'

### Examples

1.
> While they are only a drip in the *ocean* of *civil servants* who have
> forgotten WHO and WHY they have been given the jobs they have, they are
> the most accessible and easiest to rectify.
- Body of Water: civil servants
- Size: LARGE

2.
> ...people become increasingly dependent on the source which controls
> the flows of wealth through society.
- Flowing: wealth

3.
> Laws should always go through the people, because in democratic
> systems, which for the time being we still have in America, the
> government flows through the people.
- Body of Water: the people
- Flowing: government

4.
> The fresh rain of democracy...
- Rain: democracy


## Nature: Fire

Source domains: *Fire*.

*Fire*s map to life somehow. A strong flame is like a strong life force.
Fire as a *torch* lights the way and represents an affiliation. (Note:
Fire as a threat is in Health and Safety.)

### Slots

- *Fire*, e.g., 'flame of X', 'X flame', 'fire of X'
- *Torch*, e.g., 'X torch', 'torch of X'

### Examples

1.
> Fueled the dying *flame* of *gun control*...
- Fire: gun control

2.
> Carry the *gun rights* *torch*...
- Torch: gun rights


## Nature: Weather

Source domains: *Weather*.

*Weather* can be clement or inclement. Clement weather facilitates human
activity, although people engaged in farming or gardening require rain.
Overall weather patterns, or climates, shape human activity.

### Slots

- *Weather* or climate, e.g., 'thunder of X', 'X storm', 'a climate of X'
- *Weather Type*:
  - CLEMENT, e.g., a breeze
  - INCLEMENT, e.g., a storm
  
