# Embodied Experience

Source domains: *Clothing*, Container*, Emotion Experiencer*,
*Furnishings*, *Human Body*, *Object Handling*, *Temperature*, *Vision*.


## Conceptual Schemas

We live an embodied experience, which is reflected in multiple schemas.
They are:


## Embodied Experience: Clothing

Source domains: *Clothing*.

Humans wear *clothing*. Hats symbolize affiliations and professions.
Clothing on the body can be tailored to meet specific needs. Some
clothing, such as masks, can be used as a *disguise*. Disguises are
threatening and undesirable.

### Slots

- *Body* being clothed or disguised.
- *Clothing*, e.g., 'X hat', 'tailor X', 'X tailored to'
- *Clothing Type*:
  - DISGUISE, e.g., 'X disguises', 'mask of X', 'cloak of X'
  - DISTINGUISH, e.g., a hat or mantle

### Examples

1.
> First, it wraps the opposition in the mantle of popular democracy.
- Clothing: popular democracy
- Body: opposition
- Clothing: popular democracy
- Clothing Type: DISTINGUISH

2.
> Jane of the Jungle: Feminist art troupe the Guerrilla Girls attempts to
> unmask inequalities.
- Body: inequalities
- Clothing Type: DISGUISE


## Embodied Experience: Human Body

Source domains: *Human Body*.

A human *body* has parts that are considered meaningful because of their
important functions: The eyes, which are about seeing; the face, which we
interact with most; the spine and muscles, for strength; arms, for
grabbing and holding on to things; and skin for covering us. Human bodies
also have meaningful *posture*s, e.g., being brought to one's knees is a
sign of submission.

### Slots

- A Human *Body*, e.g., 'is the heart of X'
- Body *Posture* (... of triumph, of defeat, of...), e.g., 'brought X to
their knees':
  - DEFEAT
  - VICTORY
- *Body Part*, e.g., 'X is the heart of'
- *Part Type*:
  - EYES
  - FACE
  - HEART
  - MUSCLES
  - BONE
  - SPINE
  - HANDS
  - ARMS
  - SKIN

### Examples

1.
> Good will, then, lies at the heart of taxation.
- Body: taxation
- Body Part: Good will
- Party Type: HEART

2.
> The compensation committee is then an arm of management.
- Body: management
- Body Part: compensation committee
- Part Type: ARMS


## Embodied Experience: Temperature

Source domains: *Temperature*.

Heat relates to anger, which feels hot and moves quickly. Cold slows or
stops movement.

### Slots

- *Agent* -- if any -- that causes the change, e.g., 'X warmed Y',
  'X cooled Y'
For static situations:
- Something *Hot*, e.g., boiling, steam
- Something *Cold*, e.g., frozen, ice
For changes:
- Something *Heating*, e.g., 'X is warming'
- Something *Cooling*, e.g., 'X is cooling'


### Examples

1.
> As the election heats up we see the likes of James Zogby and others
> coming out with the constant theme of the 'Arab-American' vote.
- Heating: election

2.
> Just this morning I discovered that PayPal had shut off my PayPal
> account, frozen my money in the account and has flagged my account for
> review.
- Cooling: my money
- Agent: PayPal


## Notes

We don't currently handle *Container* or *Emotion Experiencer*.
